i once saw a stand-up comedian perform
live
who opened his act with the declaration
that
it's always easier to laugh when it's
someone else's religion
being made fun of and the sequence of
jokes he told thereafter
were a total flop he completely
failed to prove his point and i ended up
sitting there in the audience reflecting
that really public sensitivities about
mockery of religion are quite different
from what the stand-up comedian
uh proposed but of course there's
another sense in which we all understand
this point
it's easy to perceive something as
absurd
when you don't believe in it yourself
and the people who do believe in it the
people who are committed to
it the absurdities to them are
invisible what to us seems
self-evidently unreasonable
to them passes by unquestioned and in
this sense
nudism is believe it or not
for a significant minority of people
here on the internet
their religion and people
look regardless of
everybody checks out everybody i don't
think there's anything wrong with having
a look
but so long as you're not doing it with
like an agenda like it's not doing in a
creepy way but like
is this cube right now should i just
take this off
i really do understand that even if they
joke around about it
a lot of the people on the other side of
this debate take this tremendously
seriously
i grew up with a whole lot of
tremendously serious nudists
in my own family so i've heard it all
before what you will encounter again and
again
if you try to talk about nudism with
nudists face to face
is the insistence that any objection you
have to nudism
must be based on a misunderstanding of
the meaning of the term
so you know the discussion of these
topics very rarely goes beyond
clarifying the meaning of the term and
many nudists live with the delusion that
if only
people really understood what nudism
means they couldn't
possibly disagree with it the only other
philosophy of encounter that's like this
are the people who believe in
determinism because it's not just that
they believe in it
they believe that if other people
understood the meaning of the word
determinism
they couldn't possibly disagree with it
this is a further step into into
self-disciples evolution
it's very hard to get across to notice
no no no i
understand your definition of the term i
you don't need to clarify anymore i
understand what you really mean
i just actually genuinely disagree with
you
so what they'll say again and again is
nudism is not exhibitionism
you know nudism is not about sexuality
at all it's about nature it's about
freedom like in every other political
context
we would then challenge an appeal to
nature fallacy
right but never with nudism oh no nature
is the self-evident you know the
transcendental criterion
that justifies why climbing a tree when
naked
is tremendously meaningful rewarding and
climbing a tree wearing clothes you're
somehow cut off from nature whatever
there's just meaning of nature not
question meaning of freedom
in no way pinned down or specified of
course what the
rush to explain to you is that nudism is
not about showing off
that it's not about ego that it's not
about actually being beautiful that if
you're ugly or fat
you can still be a nudist i've been to
my share of nudist colonies i've been to
my share of new beaches
i assure you that part is true you will
meet and encounter many
many people who are very overweight uh
enjoying the privileges of nudism but
again
part of the problem is that when you
engage in discussion with nudists this
tends to go into a downward spiral of
self-justification with this unending
pretense that anyone who disagrees with
nudism is
merely failing to understand
the full range of meaning of the term
they don't understand the implicit
meaning of the term they understand the
profound meaning of the term
or they are ascribing to nudism
exhibitionists
or sexual overtones undertones
implications
that just couldn't possibly be there
there should should instead
be a discussion about nature and
freedom i am just barely
old enough to remember crossing swords
with people
who humorlessly advance the hypothesis
that everyone on earth is gay
that the people who think of themselves
as heterosexual
are repressed homosexuals i think this
philosophy
has dwindled away to its last few
followers probably you can still
find them somewhere on reddit somewhere
but let me tell you
there were people on this world uh
just a few decades ago there were a
whole lot of them who got into this
mindset of
of justifying their own feelings and
their own identity
by insisting that everyone else felt
that way too
and a couple of them um it's just not
the topic of this video it's not going
to do but a couple of them became
notorious
cult leaders and then part of their cult
was reaching out to people and
explaining oh no no you think you feel
this way but you've been brainwashed
into thinking you're straight and really
you're
a repressed homosexual i met people
uh with phds who still
clung to the hypothesis that was much
more popular and said the 1970s that
everyone was bisexual
right and there's a similar
psychological pattern of
self-justification there like oh like
everyone's bisexual they just don't
know it yet and it ultimately comes down
to the absurdity of saying
you don't know how you feel i know how
you really feel
and not because i know you but because i
know a universal
principle that i'm claiming to be true
in all instances for everyone right like
the conclusions of my philosophy
are universal and apply to everyone
including you
so your feelings don't matter as much as
my
theory this line of reasoning to
rationalize and advance nudism
really implicitly relies on the
assertion
that everyone's asexual these people
don't find it
erotic arousing or stimulating
to see a member of the opposite sex
naked to see a member of the same sex
naked that there's absolutely
nothing sexual in it for them to
exhibit themselves in the news or
to see others exhibit themselves this
just
isn't stimulating them at all now i am
not in a position to
question their assertion if that is
really how they feel
i notice in examining this other youtube
channel
slightly crazy vegan there's some
counter evidence
right there are actually many videos of
her giggling on camera
and getting excited looking at nude
images on the internet she's filming
herself having reactions to things this
way
right she has a separate video which
asks the question
is it okay to send dick pics to nudists
you can't really claim there's nothing
erotic nothing arousing about exhibiting
oneself in the nude
and then turn around and say stop
sending me
dick pics on instagram that's gross
which one is it going to be to be clear
i am not making the claim
that nobody can go to a beach and be
surrounded
by attractive members of the opposite
sex who are naked
or attractive members of the same sex
and be naked and
feel nothing not react anyway regardless
as
a completely non-sexual non-stimulant
there are
there are some people among us whether
they
identify as asexual or not or if they
just have an incredibly low sex drive
they have zinc deficiency whatever their
situation is there are
some people who feel that way
could we also admit that there are some
people
who are pretending to feel that way
precisely because
they do enjoy going to a nude beach they
do enjoy
playing frisbee playing volleyball
playing tennis in the nude
they precisely enjoy those things a
little bit more
because they're looking at naked people
doing those activities or they're aware
that those naked people are looking at
them naked while doing this can we
can we admit that it's possible that
more than
zero percent of humanity are motivated
to engage in these activities for
precisely that reason
and they're motivated to advance this
ludicrous philosophy
for that reason it depends whether that
checking out then leads on to
unwanted behavior that's that that could
be an issue oh yeah i've told a few but
few blokes who
would be too over creepy in the bushes
you know like so piss off like go and
have a good look at yourself in the
mirror
you know and get some self-respect or
sometimes i just like
make a sandball and just throw it next
to them so i just make like a pyramid
and just like yep
okay ammo throw there throw the answer
on there
look i say checking out each other's
equipment is perfectly natural
hey i'm a butt girl i look at bucks i
can't help myself if you had a cheeky
babe like i had last week in my
place yeah of course we look at it you
know if someone's walking past me yeah i
have a look
because she had headlights like a
ferrari you know
and it has like a model i think i've
already adam braided this point clearly
enough
but to spell it explicitly if you're
willing to take
other people's subjective experiences
and feelings
seriously right as evidence in
constructing your philosophy and
constructing your
worldview and advancing your political
program
that doesn't mean that you can discard
everyone else's
subjective feelings when it's convenient
for your political agenda
right like some people are gay and they
therefore respond to certain kinds of
stimulus and certain kinds of way and
some people are
bisexual and some people are asexual
but to claim that your feelings are
universal
that there is nothing sexually
provocative about
nudity and there's no exhibitionistic
element whatsoever
in presenting yourself in the nude is
flatly absurd
and it can only be sustained it can only
be supported
by dogmatically insisting that other
people
don't feel the way that they earnestly
tell you
they do feel i live in canada
once in a while i visit my extended
family
in the south of france right nudity
it's publicly tolerated it's kind of
it's kind of sort of legal in both
places
and i have the experience in canada and
the south of france
where my mind is on other things when
i'm in france i'm
taking care of my daughter and i'm
setting up a picnic for my daughter or
my girlfriend at the beach or something
i don't i'm not thinking sexy thoughts
at all i'm stressed out i'm busy or i'm
trying to be entertaining for my kid i
don't want to look at
beautiful naked women i don't want to
think about that
but there they are and let me tell you
something
as a heterosexual man who is in
absolutely
no way asexual who is not suffering from
zinc deficiency and who does not have a
low sex drive
yes it can be an unwanted and jarring
interruption your day to suddenly be
confronted with the sight of a
beautiful naked woman and i'm not saying
it's
pleasant or unpleasant
you know what i guess i am i'm saying
it's unpleasant okay can we go with that
if your political philosophy is a nudist
requires you
to now revile and insult me for my
honesty
i think that's just as ridiculous as if
i as a heterosexual
male were gonna revile and insult a gay
male and say
how dare you feel turned on by going
into the showers with all the other guys
on the sports team
you should just be cool like i am
because i can shower with a bunch of
naked guys and feel
nothing trust me nothing
but here you are getting turned on like
what am i gonna do i'm going to revile
him for feeling the way he feels or like
make some universal philosophical
you can't possibly feel the way you feel
because nudity isn't sexual
really really how deep do you want to
take this discussion
how deep could this discussion possibly
go what we're discussing
is the reality of human instinct all
right and that's something that tends to
remain
just outside the remit of all our
political philosophies
it's precisely the mess of instincts we
still
carry with us in the modern world left
over
from a very different world we once
inhabited if it could be established
that nudism is natural we'd only have to
return to the familiar trope of
explaining that what is natural
is not necessary and not necessarily
beneficial when nudists are confronted
with the absurdity of their reliance
on an appeal to nature fallacy they will
very often respond by trying to
exaggerate to you
just how functional nudism is how it's
somehow so much better climbing a tree
in the nude than wearing clothes
this actually reminds me of the debates
i have with
meat eaters when they insist that
there's just no material on this earth
that's as effective to make clothing out
of as
wool or leather what i actually say in
response is
if those materials really were the most
effective
don't you think the us military would be
using them why is it that the u.s
military
doesn't make uniforms out of wool why is
it they're not using
leather boots anymore after they did for
decades and decades
right it's because they discovered that
actually leather is not
a very effective material to use it's
because wool
it's ineffective in use and when you
wash it and dry it there are all these
problems
there are actually really fundamentally
functional reasons why
almost all us military equipment maybe
the exception is dress uniforms like
what they wear to funerals and state
functions
but basically everything they use in the
battlefield when it really matters
happens to be made out of vegan
materials there is no special advantage
to wolder leather
is it so hard to recognize that there's
no special advantage to nudity
if you really think that the us marine
corps could get
through their obstacle course 30 seconds
faster by doing it naked rather than
wearing a uniform
you don't think they'd be doing it i
mean when the stakes are that high
when you're when you're willing to kill
people you're willing to kill
sheep to make wool when you're willing
to kill people you're willing to kill
cows to make leather boots if there were
any advantage in it
there isn't that's why the use military
doesn't use those things i have the
experience of climbing a tree naked
i had the experience climbing a tree
wearing clothes let me tell you
something
clothes are better and finally let me
just say i've never known a nudist who
is willing to reflect on or discuss
what it is they mean by freedom
in any depth or at any length what is
this freedom
that requires you to be naked this
freedom that you are deprived of
by wearing clothes when for example
climbing a tree
my girlfriend grew up in detroit i grew
up in toronto
where we come from freedom comes down to
two little words
car ownership right all our lives we
were sold this image that what freedom
means
is owning a car right and we've had to
grow out of that we've had to recognize
no
car ownership isn't freedom at best it's
something just
wildly unrelated to freedom your social
status also
is linked to owning a car now i do think
one element of the philosophy of nudism
is
that concealment itself is somehow
uh evil that by deceiving others
or deceiving yourself as to how you
really appear
who you really are you're engaged in
something perverse and self-destructive
therefore wearing
clothes or let's say never looking at
yourself naked in the mirror
is part of the psychopathology of
modernity and some that didn't exist
perhaps
in some idealized ancient society where
clothes were at least
scarce um in this same sense though
let's question again what's meant by
freedom does freedom mean that
you need to know what car i drive
does freedom mean that i own a car
and take a picture of myself with my car
and post it on instagram
to exhibit the type of car
i own and drive is there something
really so wrong
with concealing the car with just say no
that's private that's not something i'm
going to show you that's not
going to exhibit that's not something
you need to see it's not something you
need to know about
to know what really matters about me
what i've got under these clothes might
in this same way
be at least as irrelevant as whatever it
is i'm hiding in my garage
concealment is only evil if you're doing
it
in order to manipulate someone into
doing something they don't
want to do i suppose i could agree that
if you live in a society where people
remained virgins until marriage
and a man had to commit to and marry a
woman without
ever seeing her naked something by the
way written about at length in thomas
moore's utopia
actually was a problem in his era of uh
you know protestant england
uh yeah in some contexts like that you
couldn't mislead someone into thinking
you're thin when you're fat or fat when
you're thin or thinking you have huge
breasts when you've
really taken cabbages and stuff them
into the top part of your dress
sure there could be a sense in which
concealment concealment of your car or
specifically concealment of your body
is used to manipulate someone into doing
something they otherwise wouldn't do
into manipulating
real world outcomes but the problem
there is not the concealment
it's the manipulation the problem is not
the choice to refuse
to exhibit your naked body